This file is a summary of my thoughts on the Capstone project, and what went into it.  It wasn't needed at all, but I wanted to make it anyway.

When deciding what to make for this project, I knew I wanted it to be something I had some amount of passion for, to keep my interest in the work reasonably high.  Over the past year I've been knee-deep in modding for the 90s PC game Doom, and it made sense for me to theme my project around it.  When thinking of an API to use to fulfill the requirements of this assignment, I remembered that Idgames Archive, the repository for the majority of Doom mods out there, has an API that allows me to pull information from there.  Pulling mod information and having the user write their own info to accompany it, like a review, seemed like a neat idea, and I was ready to jump right in.

Up until this assignment I hadn't used any sort of planning software, and kept my notes in a .txt file.  It worked, but it wasn't always as organized as it could be.  This time I started using Trello, and it worked out nicely.  My first day was spent seeing what all my options were with using Trello, and planning out what I wanted.  Things got a bit troublesome as I was looking at each piece of the application at a much more granular level.  There were all sorts of large and small-scope steps to take, and I had a bit of a hard time determining what should and shouldn't be listed.  Using Trello's checklist feature helped out with this.

The hardest pill to swallow with this project was realizing that the final result wouldn't have everything I envisioned.  Having observed the game industry for so long, I've seen many instances of titles not having everything that was planned in development, whether it be due to unforeseen complexities or time constraints.  In my case, I wanted to implement a log class that shows every instance of a user's record state whenever a record is added, edited or removed.  For example, if you add the Hell Revealed mod, there would've been a log on a separate page listing that you added Hell Revealed.  There would've been other instances upon editing, such as the user has beaten the mod, written a review for it, etc.  The complexity for this was higher than I anticipated, and there were other issues in the application taking up my time, so for the sake of not spending 2 months on this, I cut it out.  Despite not being a core feature, it felt a bit hard to let go of something I was planning to include.  I still want to try that out at some point, but it'll be in a different project.  This one has run it's course, and I'd rather try implementing this from the ground-up in a new app.

Springboard has taught me a lot up until now, and I can say that the rate at which I've learned is pretty high.  In spite of that, this project really hammered in the idea of 'you never stop learning.'  What I had planned didn't always fit within the confines of what I read about, and I needed to go beyond.  For instance, this was my first time using Handlebars to create HTML templates for JavaScript, and there was quite a bit I needed to read up on.  Learning about mocking API tests was its own beast that took a while for me to really wrap my head around.  There were some frustrations, but I was able to push on in spite of that.

I have to give a shoutout to my Springboard mentor, Subir Chowdhuri.  He was of great help with bringing clarity to questions I had.  In spite of him not directly taking part in this project, he showed me how valuable it is to have assistance.  I've spoken with others who've informed me of how much teammates add to the whole experience, and that felt very apparent here.

Probably my biggest regret with this project was that I wound up making something that had very little practical use.  The Doom modding community already has their own applications for keeping track of their files, and those outside of the community won't have any use for this.  In the end, this application was best for pushing my own skills and showing what I'm capable of.  In that regard, I like to think I succeeded, but I know I can go further.  Fortunately, I'm already getting ideas of what my second Capstone project will be like, and this time I plan to have it be something that has far more widespread appeal.

In spite of this project not quite matching the standards I initially set, I'm still very glad I went through this.  Being able to throw myself at something of this scope gave me a lot more experience than I anticipated.  Not with any particular framework or coding method, but how to plan out a workflow, adapting to unexpected issues, and being ready to learn something new.  Little could have prepared me for the real deal, and having this under my belt gives me more confidence to face future projects head-on.  I'm looking forward to my next project.